1)
On top of the main thread I will have one thread per train as well as one controller thread to manage scheduling.

I intend for the train threads to sleep until they announce they are ready, enqueue themselves in the proper direction queue,
signal the controller that a new train is ready and print their status when signalled to do so.

The controller thread oversees both queues to choose which train will proceed next according to a priority algorithm.

The main thread reads the input file, initalizes data, creates all train threads and the controller, then joins and cleans up resources


2)
Threads will not work independently. I will use a controller as a global scheduler that keeps everything in check. Hopefully this format will make logic much simpler and avoid train competition.

3)
I will use three mutexes, one station mutex, one track mutex and a print mutex

station_mutex keeps track of the last train direction and gaurds both queues

track_mutex ensures only one train is on the main track at a time

print_mutex prints all outputs

4)
The main thread will not be idle. This thread will read the input file into an array of train structures, initialize all mutexes and create controller and train threads.

5)
Each station will have two FIFO queues, one for each direction. Each queue will be a linked list of train structures. Each train structure will contain all relevant information about the train including its direction, arrival time, id, and pointers to the next and previous trains in the queue.

6)
All access to shared scheduling data is only access through the station mutex. A train thread will lock this mutex before enqueuing itself and the controller wil also lock it before selecting the next train.

7)
Condition vairables:

controller_cv
    Represents: "A new train is ready to be scheduled"
    Associated Mutex: station_mutex
    After waiting: Checks both quesus and selects the next train to proceed
east_cv and west_cv
    Represents: "The train can proceed onto the track"
    Associated Mutex: station_mutex and track_mutex
    After waiting: The train obtains the track mutex, croseses, prints and signals completion

8)
Overall algorithm sketch:

Main Thread:
    Read input file into array of train structures
    Initialize mutexes and condition variables
    Create controller thread
    For each train structure in array:
        Create train thread with train structure as argument
    Join all train threads
    Join controller thread
    Cleanup resources

Train thread:
    Sleep until arrival time
    Lock station_mutex
    Enqueue self in appropriate direction queue
    Signal controller_cv
    Wait on east_cv or west_cv depending on direction
    Unlock station_mutex
    Lock track_mutex
    Print crossing message
    Sleep for crossing time
    Print completion message
    Unlock track_mutex

Controller thread:
    Loop while trains remain:
        Lock station_mutex
        While both queues are empty:
            Wait on controller_cv
        Select next train based on priority algorithm
        Dequeue selected train
        Signal east_cv or west_cv depending on train direction
        Unlock station_mutex

Feedback: Please make sure it can handle different train priorities, different loading times and directions, and avoid deadlocks. +2.5